1.	Think back to how you felt at the beginning of the course. What were your expectations?
Before entering this course, I expected to gain a foundational understanding of Network communication. To be honest, I basically had zero idea how Network communication worked other than what I had learned in Operating Systems. I was hoping to gain a much better conceptual understanding of Network communication.
2.	Tell a story about a topic, problem, or assignment from the class that challenged you. How did you respond?
Creating the Shakespeare project was particularly challenging to me. The server-side communication code was confusing to me, and I was struggling to understand the meanings of specific function calls. I know that I learn best when doing examples, so I took the time to go through a couple YouTube tutorials to better familiarize myself with the functions.
3.	Tell a story about an interaction you had with another person because of this class.
Sam and I were able to help each other during the C socket programming project. We had opposite issues with the code, and were able to explain the concepts we were struggling with to each other to better our own understanding. This not only helped us complete the assignment, but furthered our own knowledge of the content.
4.	Other than programming, what have you learned from this class that you can take forward into your other classes or post-Rollins work?
I have learned that I gain knowledge best when doing practice of applying the concepts I learned in class. This gives me the opportunity to think critically about the content and work through problems I may encounter. It can be hard at times to really assess how well/or not you understand concepts without doing examples. This challenges the learner to apply what they’re learning without the “training wheels” of being in class.
5.	What has been your experience on learning during the pandemic, whether that was in-person or remote? What did you find most challenging? What (if anything) worked well for you during this time?
I found it challenging to work in groups while being remote. Theoretically, video conferencing should allow for better scheduling. Despite this, it was more difficult at times as some of my group mates were in different time zones. At times we ended up meeting during obscure hours to accommodate this. Communication through other platforms, specifically GroupMe, was very helpful throughout.
6.	What are your thoughts on online vs. in-person education? Do you think there are positive aspects of online teaching that we should incorporate into our regular classes?
I very much prefer in-person learning to virtual. Even though virtually you can interact with the professor, I find it much easier to ask questions in person. I also find that my focus is much better in person. As far as the benefits of virtual learning, I found that during video conference meeting the screen share option was good for code development. This allowed everyone to easily see what was being programmed and exactly what others were talking about.
7.	Metacognition is the act of thinking about your own thinking. The single most important skill you can develop in college is self-awareness about your own learning process. What have learned about your own learning as a result of being in this class?

The most important thing I learned about my own learning was my necessity to rapidly apply concepts to real world projects. For example, when learning about DOM and context free grammars, I created a Star Wars web application to apply the concepts we had learned in class. From then on, I felt confident in my ability to program those concepts. Programming forced me to encounter any confusion I had as well as further my skills by researching questions I had.
